All right guys.
Now we're going to jump into media queries and I'm actually going to do this in our CSF sandbox.
So I'm going to add a file here called 1 3 13 because we left off at 12:00 media underscore queries
dot h t email and we're gonna put our boiler plate in with Emmet so exclamation enter a tab at our title
and for the body.
This isn't going to be a very practical use of media queries we're gonna do that later on and all our
projects.
This is more to get you familiar with how they work in the syntax.
So I'm going to have a few divs here.
So actually we don't even need that.
Let's do an I.D..
A div with an idea of wide screen.
And inside here I'm going to put an H and then I'm just gonna put the text wide screen and the names
of these did these ideas.
They have nothing to do with media queries it's just what I'm choosing to use because I want to give
you an example of each screen size and how we can add separate styles for them.
So it's clear the So and this one is gonna be normal.
Normal size computer size whatever you want to call it.
This one is gonna be tablet.
And this one is gonna be smartphone
and this one we're gonna do landscape.
OK.
We can do media queries for both width and height.
So let's save this and let's open this up with a live server.
So that's what it's going to look like.
Now we're gonna put all of our CSX up in the head area just for convenience usually it would be on us
in a separate CSX file and I'm going to add some core styles for the body.
So let's just add a better font family we'll do aerial and let's do a background of gray.
I'm just going to use color names just for convenience because what I want to happen is I want to have
a different background color for each device or each of these divs here.
So let's see what else.
Let's align to the center
and let's do a padding top of 100 pixels.
All right.
So we'll save that.
It's going to look like this.
Now as far as testing your your media queries and breakpoints you can resize the browser.
OK that'll work.
It'll update in real time.
Another way to do it and a way that you should definitely do it even if you test to begin with with
the browser you should always check them out with the chrome tools so I'm going to open up my chrome
tools and hit this icon here.
This is the device toolbar and this actually allows you to test your web page on different devices as
you can see the iPhone X we have iPhone 6 7 8 plus 6 7 8.
Even the 5 which you can see is much smaller pixel to excel pixel to galaxy and then we also have the
iPad so you can test for tablets before the iPad Pro which is basically the same with us as a laptop
would be.
But we do we can test with that as well.
So I usually test mostly with the iPhone 6 7 8 and the iPhone X but yeah.
This is you're going to see some things here that you won't notice if you just use the browser because
of the height in the browser you have a much bigger height than you do on actual smart so you don't
get a real look at what it looks like on a smartphone.
But I'm going to close this for now by clicking the icon again and we're going to go back in here and
inside my my CSX usually this would be in a separate file but I can do it here as well.
I'm going to add my first media query.
So we do this by doing at media some parentheses and then inside here we can put a max width or amend
with or max height or I mean height but I'm going to do max width and set it to 500 pixels and then
we open up some curly braces.
Now another thing I want to show you here in the device is it shows you the width and the height.
OK so an iPhone X has a width of 375 pixels for Levin galaxy is 360.
Notice that they're all under 500.
So that's usually what I use for smartphones.
So I'm going to go right here and say smartphones and let's take the body and let's change the background
to red.
OK.
By default it's gray.
I should say the core style or the default styling is gray.
But as you can see when we test on an iPhone X or any of these devices it's red and I can close this
up and just drag the browser make it smaller once it hits 500 it turns red.
OK.
And you can also do a min with if I do mean with it's going to do the opposite.
It's going to be red until I hit 500 pixels.
Now when you do mobile first design usually you'll put you'll do all your base styling as as you would
on a mobile screen and then you add your men width for larger screens.
OK but we'll get into that later but I'm going to put this back to Max.
So the other thing that I want to do is only display the heading for that screen size.
So by default I'm going to set each one all age ones to have a display of none.
OK.
Which will make them just disappear completely.
So we'll save that and then down in our media query for our smartphone for 500 pixels or less.
I'm going to target the I.D. smartphone each one and I'm going to set the display to its normal value
of block.
And there we go.
So now it only displays when it's 500 pixels or less.
OK.
Now let's add another one for tablet.
I'm going to just copy this whole thing here and let's add tablets and usually a tablet is around 768.
That's a common break point for tablets.
I'm going to set this to blue and let's grab the I.D. of tablet and display the H1.
All right.
Now notice that even though we're under five hundred pixels this is still applying because always said
was the max width of 768.
And that includes five hundred and less.
So anything under 768.
So if we wanted to target everything under 768 we could just do this.
There's not even any need for this but if we want a different style for smartphones and then something
different for tablets what we would do is a mini width.
Next we're going to go right here.
Open up another set of curly braces and say men with do 5 0 1 pixels and a max width of 768.
So if I save that now when I get down to 500 notice it goes back to red it just shows the styling because
this media query is 5 0 1 to 5 2.
I'm sorry 768.
OK.
Another thing I want to mention is that you might you might sometimes see this at media only screen
and and then the max or min with or whatever.
Now the reason for this is because screen is one of the media types.
There's screen print and I believe speech.
And sometimes you'll see this and it just means this only applies to screens.
I usually leave this off because the default is all so it will show for it doesn't matter the media
type but if you see this it just means that it's only four screens all right so let's move on here let's
do that.
The normal size.
So going to copy this and paste that in and let's change the values here.
So this ends at 768.
So let's do a min width of seven sixty nine and we'll go to let's say twelve hundred.
I'm going to set the green are the background to green and then I only want the normal I.D. H1 to show
so I'll save that.
And now from seven sixty nine to twelve hundred we get that green normal we hit 768 tablet we had 500
Smartphone.
All right.
And then finally let's do the widescreen.
So I'm just gonna paste this in again and we'll see a wide screen and four wide screen.
I'm just gonna do anything above twelve hundred or twelve twelve hundred and one I should say.
So we don't need a range.
We can simply do men with 12 or 1 and we can just get rid of this and let's make it black and the I.D.
of wide screen So now once they hit twelve or one we get wide screen and it's gonna it's gonna stay
like that as large as I go.
OK.
So as you can see we're just hitting breakpoints and then those styles are kicking in.
Now usually you're not going to have all of these you're not going to have separate styles for every
single device but you might for instance have floats on your normal you know you might have two sections
that are float floated left and right.
Or better yet the Flex will use flex in the grid system later on but then when you get to smaller screens
you want them to be on top of each other because it looks ridiculous floated like that on very small
screens so you would add a media query for a mobile device and just set the float to none.
And that's exactly what we're gonna do in our hotel website.
But this is the syntax for media queries.
So let's test this out in the device toolbar So I'm to open up my chrome tools and hit the device toolbar.
So any smartphone should just be read because they're all under 500 pixels wide.
And then if I go to the iPad we get the tablet as you can see it's seven sixty eight and then I Pad
Pro is gonna be normal because it's 10 24 OK in an iPad Pro is pretty wide it's it's pretty much like
a laptop OK.
Now for landscape what we would do is probably set a height because actually let me make this a little
bigger because if we hit this icon here let's go back to iPhone and we'll hit that and it shows this
landscape and the width is 812.
So it falls into normal but let's add another one here just copy this
and say you'll change this landscape let's do a max
height of 500 pixels and we're gonna change the background to Orange and let's say landscape H1 and
we'll save that.
And now notice that it's orange we get in landscape it's also going to show normal because of the width.
OK.
It's it's also whatever we have for the width still applies.
We're just adding some for the height as well.
All right.
And if this is confusing don't worry about it just like anything else that that may have confused you
we're going to we're going gonna touch on all of this stuff as we move along.
So you're going to.
It's going to make sense it's going to click OK.
So the last thing I want to show you is that we can actually have separate style sheets as our media
query if you don't want to embed the media query into a style sheet.
You can have a separate one so just for an example.
I'm going to create a new file.
I'm actually going to delete this after which is to show you.
We could do like let's say a style she called Mobile dot CSX and go up to the head and just like we
add any style sheet we could use a link tag Rel style sheet and we can point to mobile dot CSX.
Now right now it'll always load that style sheet but we can actually add a media attribute and in our
media attribute we're gonna say screen and and then open some parentheses and let's do a max width of
768 pixels.
Now what this is going to do is it's only going to load this style sheet if the screen is 768 or less.
So basically a tablet or less.
Otherwise it's not going to load.
Now you always want to have this after your main style sheet.
In fact this isn't even going to do what I want because our style.
It's down here so I'm going to move this below are style tags so we'll go right here because you want
your main styling up here and then down here we have our mobile so in our mobile CSX.
Where is it.
Right here.
I'm going to actually take the body and I'm going to add a background of pink so once I save that once
I hit 768 notice that it's pink.
And it doesn't matter if it's tablet or smartphone because I said it to 768 and it's after the rest
of our styling.
So it's going to take precedence.
OK but yeah you can do that as well.
I'm actually going to delete the that mobile CSX and then I'm just going to comment out the link to
it just so you have it as a reference.
All right.
So let's media queries and like I said we're going to get more into them but before we do that I want
to take a look at certain relative units in CSX such as REM am as well as viewport heights and viewport
widths.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.